 FIRST SAMURAI

                            THE COMPLETE SOLUTION

                              BY DOCTOR BUTCHER

                           Edited & Fixed by Rygar

LEVEL 1
~~~~~~~
Head right until you reach thin bridge of land prior to the second statue.
Kick downwards, go down hole, kill or avoid stalactite, leg sweep on thin
ground and drop down hole. Walk immediately right. clout large moving statue
as it comes towards you. Climb and descend tree trunk. Venture right along
ground level and pass over preceding statue by means of jumping onto a tree
trunk and leaping over. Dodge falling stalactite above blue spike. collect
special at far right, avoid statue and climb left side of second tree from
right, right, grab bell and use potion. Continue right (nipping down hole if
you feel like a sword and a seeker or two) beyond yellow baddies and make use
of regeneration pot. Summon your friendly neighbourhood Wizard Mage (by
ringing bell) while standing next to fire, which should douse its flame`s.
Overhead chop at underside of platform, collect bell, and descend waterfall.
Hack right, wait until dragon stops throwing flames before abruptly grabbing
special and deftly jumping out of the way. Slice through scenery and that
potion is yours. Jump over fire, leap onto platform next to spinning yellow
tower (avoiding mines), onto platform, onto platform and onto tree trunk above
gragon. Clamber up, carefully jump left and collect treasure if desired,
positioning Samurai on the far most righthand edge of right tree trunk. Jump
with joystick pulled right with repeated fire presses for flying slashes.
Hopefully you will land under frog, which can be killed with an overhead slice
or eight. Descend leftwards, spring over fire, fend off stalactite, jump to
land in protection of tree trunks. When sword thrower crouches down (you may
have to climb up slightly for this to happen), skip over him and kill the
bast. Jump right from grey hut onto platform and slash for a seeker. Right,
use pot, slash wall and stand on edge of pit. Jump into middle (to avoid
spikes), then fully left, once you have passed second row of spikes on left in
order to miss fire. Chop wall, use platforms to ascend and once back on level
ground, gash ceiling to reveal seeker. Explore left, slashing ceilings and
travelling via teleports for extra treasure, food, and a special (in fiery
pit) then return. Use sword to remove ground under yellow rocks, drop down
onto yellow tower, hurdle left and crouch behind regeneration pot. Hack
scenery and climb down right hand side of wall, then down again onto left side
to hack and collect treasure. Up and left we go, and quickly down left wall
again, avoiding stalactite (theres food available by using your sword against
the cave roof - food - up if required). Walk left, up platforms, (jump
directly up to avoid spikes), left and ring bell to rid yourself of the rocks
and hit upwards for food. Return to previously scaled top platform and wield
your sword in the general direction of the ceiling to collect another bell.
Back left, and a special and potion will be waiting for you. Lower yourself
downwards (don`t jump) and immediately right, leaping daintily across the
disintegrating bridge and operate teleport. Left a little, up right via
platform, trying to get to the top of insect colony where food and a special
lie (thats a smart bomb below incidentaly). Cavort over fire using platform,
climb up platform over second fire, use pot and right, right, right. Ring bell
next to waterfall and cross bridge to face end of level dragon. Turn around,
touch the ground, bagsy no returns to kill. Simply remain on left hand side of
the screen and hack shoot his head every time he comes towards you. Don`t get
stuck underneath his noddle though, or he`ll breath fire on you. No probs.

LEVEL 2
~~~~~~~
Firstly, dont get that dagger to your right (more later). In lieu, a bit of
killing and a little axe collecting would be nice. Saunter right, past first
tree (dont slash this to collect a dagger either), yonder second tree and
remove the ground under the next visible hut. Down, left, hack ceiling for
treasure, hack wall, hack at large, moving baddie and cross over him by
climbing up left side of hut sticking out of the ground and dropping down,
then collect bell. Back to far right, use bell to destroy rocks, collect
special, back left again, collect another bell from the same place and back up
to ground level (via double use of teleport if you like). Fully right,
initiate regeneration pot, stand adjacent to fire and ring bell to calm it
down a bit. Right, secure that special and bell for your own use and back out
left past fire. Stand slightly to the left of the scenic statue in the
distance in order to jump onto platform, upwards and onto tree. Strike the
stalactite and nearby ceiling for food. Mount grey wall, take immediate left,
use bell and cross the bridge. Clout ceiling and pocket the bell. Make your
way left through maze of tree trunks and spiky blue things (you can get on
edge of trunk without getting killed by the spiky things), and climb down last
trunk (dont jump). Jump up left into passageway on left, summon that helpful
Wizard chappie to help with your special collecting. Jump up right into a
small cavern for bell collecting purposes. Walk left, treat the regeneration
pot to a little useage and yank right on the joystick whilst plummeting down
the hole next to the yellow pillar. If noone else wants the special, then help
yourself and swiftly clamber out of right side of pit, and return to where you
just saved the game. Ring bell to rid yourself of rocks, up steps and
teleport. Down, collect bell, up, ring bell, take special, up again, get bell
behind disintegrating stone blocks, hack at wall on left and use potion. This
probably isnt the best time to mention it but the end of level baddie is
easier to kill if you have a dagger or two. Lucky that you saved two earlier
then. Manipulate your way back to the start of the level, help yourself to the
two daggers, one to your immediate right and the other materialising when the
first tree to your right is swiped, and return via the potion. Trek left and
fall left to arrive alongside the maze of blue spiky things. Hurtle over the
spikes, work the teleport and ring the bell for severe fire dousing purposes.
Save your position, ready to slaughter the end of level robot. Jump up the
provided platforms, but remain on the top one, slightly lower than the level
of the robot. All his shots at you will now miss. Kill him by throwing daggers
only throw when he is close, so that all your shots hit and the weapon wont
run out.

LEVEL 3
~~~~~~~
Right, evade blue spiky thing, up steps, avoid dragon breath jumping over last
visible part of ground bridge, otherwise it will disintegrate. Dodge blue
spiky thing (after an initial double spike) and indoctrine regeneration pot.
Hurl yourself manically fully right from end of platform into a tree, and
collect bell. Drop down, wallop ground near to waterfall and teleport. Get
back to blue spiky thing number 2 and summon Mr Wizzard. Onto stars, right,
onto top layer of crystals and jump right to eventually obtain a yellow bell-
type thing. Spring left onto single crystal, drop directly down from leftside
to the second row, jump right, ring bell, and collect what looks suspiciously
like a special. Advance left, fall down at first available opportunity and
steal bell from branches. Descend for the usual teleporting business. Back at
the blue spiky thing, its onto the stars, up left, left, ring bell, slash at
the end of the corridor, get treasure and two specials, down, right, left
underground and teleport. Back past the blue spike, stone dragon and second
blue spike. Cascade from edge of platform, pulling sharply in left as you go.
Time your way across the multitude of blue spiky things, collect bell, right
once more and fall from edge. Take the lower of the two left corridors.
Another blue spiky thing. You know what to do. Have another slash upwards for
food, treasure and a dagger, along first corridor on right for another
special, then left to suitable exit. Keep the dagger, ascend the tree trunk
and onto yellow spinning tower. It`s sword on ceiling time for food, and head
fully right. This time, once past the stone dragon, fall from end of platform
onto bridge. Left, take upper corridor, carefully over spikes, collect special
and return left. Take lower corridor. Ring bell by fire, left, and teleport.
At the end of this level you`ll come across an array of banshees. Jump to far
right of the screen, move back in left slightly and fire daggers, slash
forwards and overhead when necessary. Easy as pie.

LEVEL 4
~~~~~~~
Bounce nimbly onto right platform, annihilate baddie, drop down and liquidate
rats to give you your sword. Use far right teleport. Stroll in the general
left direction, killing/jumping over yellow baddies as you go. Ignore first
bell, jump left onto platform, get bell, jump again and put that special under
your hat. The yellow baddies will leap to a suicidal death (and you`ll end up
back at level one if you fall off). Left again and teleport at first
opportunity. Jump onto stars, left and fall in between fires. Up left with
joystick to clutch spectacularly onto the tree trunk and dismount left. That
Special? Pick it up, man. Left, yeehaa into gap between flames, vault onto
tree trunk, up and teleport. Teleport using teleport on left, clang bell and
up for another spesh. Teleport back to starting screen and reuse right
teleport. Pinch that bell from the far left. And perhaps teleport back again
using the far right teleport (as opposed to the one in the middle) while
you`re at it. Down hole, ring bell, right, right, right, slash wall and get
special. Back to starting screen, use right teleport, jump off far left
platform, back to level one, go right to level two, collect bell and potion,
back to level four. Teleport from top left of starting screen, leap over mine,
jump away from right platform and hit ceiling for food plus dagger. Right,
then right and ring bell by robot. Stand towards left of screen, faceleft and
continuously press up and fire for a flying slash, continue doing so, edging
slightly away each time you think the robot is going to hit you. When you are
nearing one side of the screen, turn to face the robot, fire the dagger and
whilst the robot is blocking your great shot, cunningly leap over him, doing a
flying slash as you go. Then repeat the process until he (and preferably not
you) are dead.